Sprint 4 Reflections

What did you do?
For this sprint, I worked on allowing users to mark a habit as important and allowing the users to tag their habits. Since this was the last sprint I gave the calendar a visual overhaul and some visual improvements to the graphs as well. I updated the graphs and calendar to incorporate skipped habits which were implemented last sprint. I also tried to improve the user experience by creating a display on hover texts to make some features more intuitive.

Challenges: 
Improving the visuals of the website was hard. By default, my browser saves the cache of previous visits to the website so all the CSS changes weren't being accurately reflected while hosting it locally. This was very frustrating because I thought I implemented it incorrectly and started looking for errors. This was easily fixed by disabling the cache in the inspect developer tool.

Another challenge was implementing event triggers properly. To allow users to add tags I used a form that was hidden initially but becomes visible on click. But since it overlaps with other elements it had to be responsive when visible and unresponsive when hidden. This was done with the help of CSS and JS. Another issue was that all habit divs were the same with just the habit data being different. So I had to prevent one click from chaining to all the other divs. This was done with jQuery preventing further propagation after the trigger occurs once. The

What did you learn? 
I learned more about the web development ecosystem and how a responsive web application is built. I also learned how to make the design more intuitive and easy to follow to improve the user experience. 

What could have been improved?
Since multiple people were working on the project there was always something new happening. I didn't spend much time seeing what they were doing previously which made some components a total mystery. But this sprint I had to build upon someone else's work so I took the time to understand how the project worked as a whole this was very helpful as I finally felt like I could understand the workflow of the whole system. It would have been a massive help if I had looked at what others were doing and how it fits into our app.
