Sprint 3 Reflections

What did you do?
Sprint 3 focused on adding new functionality and key features to the habit tracker. I mainly worked on the calendar for our web app. I used the fullcalendar. js library to display a working calendar along with the user's habits on our website. To reduce the need to import the packages for the calendar the scripts and CSS for the calendar were imported through CDN. To color code the habits based on their status the rrule.js library was also used to add more functionality to the calender.

Challenges:
Finding a working library was hard. The initial plan was to use the Django scheduler which provided tools to display dates & times through Python. However, the library was not maintained and didn't work with the latest version of Python. I was not sure if all our features would still work with an older version of Python so I scrapped the whole library.
I could not find any solution with Python libraries so, I started looking in Javascript libraries. I finally landed on full calendar which was regularly maintained and had great documentation. Full calendar provided most of the features necessary to display all the habits. However, to display color codded habits I also made use of rrule.js library which provided the tools to sort habits based on properties allowing me to color code the habits.

What did you learn? 
I have only used Javascript once, before so, this was a great learning experience. I got familiar with CDN and how it fits into the web ecosystem. I also learned how to use the inspect element developer tool. This was very helpful as it allowed me to see the status of all packages as I was trying to import them to load on the website. These tools also made me understand what status codes mean. 

What could have been improved?
Doing research before committing to a library would have been very helpful. For this sprint, I had spent a considerable amount of time trying to get the Django scheduler to work which could have been avoided if I had simply checked if the repository was being updated or not. For this sprint onwards I will try to research and plan thing out before committing to it
